Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
2352-152X/© 2021 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
A technological overview & design considerations for developing electric 
vehicle charging stations 
Rajanand Patnaik Narasipuram a,b,*, Subbarao Mopidevi b 
a OLA Electric Technologies Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru, India 
b Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Vignan’s Foundation for Science, Technology & Research, Guntur, India   
A R T I C L E  I N F O   
Keywords: 
EV charging station 
Optimization 
Renewable energy 
Energy storage system 
Off-grid 
Battery electric vehicle 
Hybrid electric vehicle 
Hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicle 
V2G 
Battery swapping 
A B S T R A C T   
In recent years, it is seen that there has been a huge expansion in the electric vehicles market aiming to reduce 
the impact of greenhouse gases. The deployment of an optimal and cost-effective electric vehicle charging sta­
tions similar to petrol/diesel stations with advanced control algorithms is necessary for the successful imple­
mentation. This review paper gives an overview of electric vehicles and various configurations about the design 
aspects of charging station. The charging stations are categorized on the basis of power utilized with various 
optimization algorithms, methods and future directions are presented to have an optimal design. And also, the 
highlights of grid connected combination of renewable energy based and grid connected, off-grid mode are 
summarized along with the future scope. Incorporation of renewable energy along with storage systems in the 
charging station can reduce the high load taken from the grid especially at peak times. By providing an overview 
of these key areas, the review study aims to provide a deep insight to the industry experts and researchers for 
future developments.   
1. Introduction 
One of the significant contributions in the transport field is the 
development of Internal Combustion (IC) Engine vehicles. However, 
larger number of automobiles have created serious problems in the life 
of humans. Air pollutants, global warming and the rapid emptying of oil 
supplies on earth creates a major threat to the environment. The various 
factors related to fuel usage and carbon dioxide(CO2) emissions on the 
road are studied in [1]. With reference to the studies done in the motor 
vehicles, it has been estimated that majority of the exhaust gases are 
produced in the first 300 s. The major factors which causes pollution are 
dependent on the road, temperature, vehicle speed and mass [2]. In the 
analysis from China’s passenger vehicles, it can be inferred that the 
emitted greenhouse gases will raise within 2027 at the level of 810 
megaton(mt) carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) [3]. 
In recent years, researchers are focused in developing a clean, effi­
cient and smart vehicles incorporating Renewable Energy Technologies. 
Therefore, there exist the deployment of Electric and Hybrid vehicles, 
Fuel cell vehicles in focus of a green transport sector. With reference to 
the studies conducted from the literature it can be seen that replacement 
of Internal Combustion Engine vehicles with Electric vehicles (EVs) in 
2017 promoted reduction in oxides of nitrogen [4].There are many 
technologies developed in the market of Electric vehicles. In order to 
enhance the safety of electric vehicles a new slip control system is pro­
posed. The main focus includes safety of vehicles, better acceleration 
and braking, maintaining the driver’s safety, comfort and reduced usage 
of power [5]. 
Even though there are many technologies which are incorporated in 
Electric vehicles, there are some obstacles which has to be tackled for the 
fulfilment of a green transport sector. The major limitations that the 
electric vehicles facing today includes lack of charging facilities, long 
battery charging time and range anxiety. Fostering the electric vehicle 
(EV) industry an efficient well-equipped charging station that meets the 
vehicles requirement should be constructed. In order to encourage the 
electric vehicle manufacturers, the foremost thing is to identify an 
appropriate location and sizing for a charging station [89-90]. There are 
wide developments in view of developing an Electric Vehicle Charging 
Station (EVCS). 
The main moto of this paper is there are many literatures available in 
the open source research network. But many of the papers failed to 
explain the design requirements for EVCS in various aspects. This paper 
mainly focuses on an overview of Electric vehicles and various config­
urations in the design aspects of Electric vehicle charging stations. 
* Corresponding author. 
E-mail address: rajanand.ee@gmail.com (R.P. Narasipuram).  
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Journal of Energy Storage 
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/est 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.est.2021.103225 
Received 8 June 2021; Received in revised form 4 September 2021; Accepted 5 September 2021   

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
2
Design of EVCS is done based on the power utilized. Various Algorithms 
and optimization methods are incorporated in order to have an optimal 
design. 
The review paper is divided into mainly 6 sections. First section 
consists of introduction part where a brief overview of the review paper 
objective is presented. An overview of electric vehicles is described in 
the Section 2 where different categories of electric vehicles and the 
impacts of the electric vehicles are described. The Section 3 deals with 
Electric vehicle charging. Battery swapping, three different levels of 
charging are presented here. Section 4 deals with design aspects of 
EVCS, which is the core part of the review study. It consists of various 
optimization techniques used in the design and various configurations of 
Electric vehicle charging stations. Design of EVCS is categorized based 
on the power utilized. Results and discussion are presented in Section 5 
and finally Section 6 presents the conclusion. 
The main key contributions are:  
1 Various Electric Vehicle Transportation Overview  
2 The various configurations about the design aspects of charging 
stations are discussed and are categorized on the basis of power 
utilized.  
a Battery Swapping Technology.  
b Charging Station utilizing only grid power.  
c Charging Station utilizing grid power and Energy Storage System.  
d Charging station utilizing grid power and Renewable energy. 
e Charging Station utilizing grid power, Renewable energy and En­
ergy Storage System.  
f Off-grid Charging Station. 
3 And also, Various optimization algorithms, methods and future di­
rections are described in this review study to have an optimal design.  
4 The highlights of grid connected, combination of renewable energy 
based and grid connected, off-grid mode is summarized along with 
the future scope in the review study.  
5 Incorporation of renewable energy along with storage systems in the 
charging station can reduce the high load taken from the grid espe­
cially at peak times. 
2. An overview of electric vehicles 
An Electric vehicle contains one or more electric motors for its 
traction and obtain its power from rechargeable batteries which is 
contained in the vehicle. In order to have a pollution free atmosphere, an 
Electric vehicle is a suitable option. It is noted that the shift from IC 
engine powered vehicles to EVs reduces net CO2 emissions. It is also 
estimated that the average CO2 avoidance for the entire world is 16.24% 
under current conditions [6]. In order to promote the Electric vehicle 
industry, EVs tariffs should be such that it will minimize refuelling and 
grid reinforcement costs [7]. To promote Electric vehicle manufactures 
it is essential to establish a suitable charging location to improve vehicle 
range and anxiety regarding charging process [8,91,92]. 
2.1. Categories of electric vehicles 
2.1.1. Battery electric vehicles 
Battery Electric Vehicle (BEVs) contains a battery, a motor and a 
controller. BEVs are powered by high-capacity battery packs that can be 
plugged into the mains from where the charging is done. Regenerative 
braking is also established in BEVs where the motor acts as generator 
and thereby the electrical energy obtained from the generator is stored 
in the batteries. With reference to the case studies done in taxis and 
private vehicles in Beijing, China, it can be identified that with home 
and public charging facilities, BEVs can replace a large portion of gas­
oline vehicles without affecting the transportation of individuals [9]. 
Lithium–ion (Li-ion) batteries are mainly used by the EV manufac­
tures for storing energy. The significant features of Li-ion batteries are 
high energy density, less maintenance, various shapes, chemistries and 
performances [10]. Li-ion batteries are more reliable and plays a vital 
role in Electric vehicles [11]. Even though Li-ion batteries have a great 
impact in Electric vehicles, a systematic study in the failure mechanisms 
has to be considered for the smooth operation of Electric vehicles [12]. 
BEVs uses external socket for charging the battery. Due to the contin­
uous improvement in the market of Plug-in electric vehicles, there are 
many technologies developed [13]. High fleet of Plug-in electric vehicles 
leads to development of an intelligent management system for avoiding 
negative impacts on distribution systems. Plug-in electric vehicles smart 
charging methods are presented in [14,86–88]. 
2.1.2. Hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicle 
The basic principle of a hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles (HFCEVs) 
is that Hydrogen reacts with Oxygen to produce water and electricity 
which powers the wheels of the vehicle. Fuel cells are electrochemical 
devices similar to a battery that generates electricity to power an electric 
motor utilizing hydrogen and oxygen. There are various types of fuel 
cells based on the electrolyte used. Plug-in fuel cell electric vehicles 
List of Abbreviations 
A 
Ampere 
AC 
Alternating Current 
BEV 
Battery Electric Vehicle 
BFA 
Binary Firefly Algorithm 
BST 
Battery Swapping Technology 
CO2 
Carbon dioxide 
CO2e 
Carbon dioxide equivalent 
DCFC 
Direct Current Fast Charging 
EPRI 
Electric Power Research Institute 
ESS 
Energy Storage System 
EVCS 
Electric Vehicle Charging Station 
EVCS 
Electric Vehicle 
FCEV 
Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle 
GA 
Genetic Algorithm 
GA-PSO Genetic Algorithm - Particle Swarm Optimization 
GOA 
Grasshopper Optimization Algorithm 
HEV 
Hybrid Electric Vehicle 
HFCEV 
Hydrogen Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle 
IC 
Internal Combustion 
kW 
kilo-Watt 
kWh 
kilo-Watt hour 
Li-ion 
Lithium-ion 
MINLP 
Mixed Integrator Non-Linear 
MPDIPA Modified Primal-Dual Interior Point Algorithm 
mt 
megaton 
PFCEV 
Plug-in Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle 
PHEV 
Plug-in Hybrid Electric Vehicle 
PSO 
Particle Swarm Optimization 
PV 
Photovoltaic 
RESS 
Renewable Energy Storage System 
SAE 
Society of Automotive Engineer 
SEL 
Substation Energy Loss 
SOC 
State-of-Charge 
TEL 
Transportation Energy Loss 
V2G 
Vehicle-to-Grid 
VAC 
AC Voltage 
VDC 
DC Voltage  
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
3
(PFCEVs) are the combination of BEVs and fuel cell electric vehicles 
(FCEVs). With reference to the case study done in California, the per­
formance of PFCEVs are far better than BEVs and FCEVs [15]. According 
to the review status, it is seen that the current technologies are capable 
to perform better. But it can be inferred that it is not reliable and the 
intelligent methods are not satisfactory [16].With the incorporation of 
well performed power electronic converters and improved research 
methods the performance of fuel cell system can be improved [17]. 
2.1.3. Hybrid electric vehicles 
Hybrid Electric Vehicles (HEVs) combines the features of Electric 
vehicle and Internal Combustion Engine vehicles. It has two or more 
power sources. In order to establish a proper hybrid system, it is 
essential to have a power management strategy. Thereby by imple­
menting an optimal controlled method hybrid vehicle can provide better 
fuel economy and improves efficiency of the system. [18]. Dynamic 
Programming, a global optimization technique is essential in the ap­
plications of Energy Management Strategy research  [19].It is seen that 
Adaptive Energy Management Strategy have better fuel economy rather 
than rule based [20]. The most prominent classification of Hybrid 
Electric vehicle is Plug-in Hybrid Electric vehicles[PHEVs]. Due to the 
large penetration of Plug-in Hybrid Electric vehicle, there needs a con­
trol mechanism to regulate the multiple loads fed to the grid. An esti­
mation of distribution Algorithm [EDA] for effectively managing a huge 
number of PHEVs is proposed in [21].It is seen that the proposed method 
were also compared with other techniques in order to specify its 
uniqueness. There are various categories of Hybrid Electric vehicle 
based on the configurations arrangement [22–25]. 
The Fig. 1 describes the general variants of Vehicle Transportation. 
The Table 1 exhibits the comprehensive view of IC Engine, HEV, HFCEV, 
and BEV. 
2.2. Impacts of electric vehicles 
Due to the tremendous progress in the field of Electric vehicles in 
view of depletion of greenhouse gas emissions, there have been more 
demand for electric power. Deployment of Electric vehicles have created 
more impacts in the power grid, Environment and Economy [25]. There 
have been both positive as well as negative effects due to the deployment 
of Electric vehicles. Fig. 2 describes an Outline of the effects of Electric 
Vehicles. As described there are several affects will impact the power 
grid, environment and economy. Due to vehicle charging methods the 
grid will affects with several voltage fluctuations, notches, flickering, 
imbalances, sag, swell and harmonics will restrict the power grid to 
operate with several limitations. The grid technology to be improved in 
the area of V2G (Vehicle-to-Grid), incorporation of smart grids and 
renewable energy systems with advanced technologies, control system 
designs and complex power system network. By keeping these factors, 
the overall cost of the system will increase and complexity of the system 
will ruin the efficiency. The EV’s are bestowed towards the improve­
ment of air quality which implies, CO2 can also be substantially reduced 
when compared to conventional vehicles. However, EV’s are silent 
which can refine the environment with reduced noise levels [93–97]. 
3. Electric vehicle charging modes 
3.1. Charging modes 
Tremendous increase in the market of Electric vehicle necessitates 
the deployment of charging stations. Regulatory framework for charging 
Electric Vehicles is proposed in [29]. Based on that various charging 
modes such as EV private home charging mode, public charging mode 
and fast charging modes are formed. The Electric Power Research 
Institute (EPRI) and the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) classifies 
charging levels as alternating current (AC) Level 1, AC Level 2, and 
direct current fast charging (DCFC) Level 3 [30]. Level 1 charging is 
considered as the slowest charging due its long-time consumption for 
charging the electric vehicles. Whereas level 3 is considered as the 
fastest charging level. The Table 2 describes types of charging modes. 
3.1.1. Level 1 charging 
This type of charging is mainly used in homes. It uses 120 V AC with a 
current rating of 15 A or 20 A. This type of charging can take 8 to 16 h for 
full charge of an EV battery. Level 1 charging are considered as the 
cheapest method, provided it is time consuming. It doesn’t need any 
additional equipment for charging. Home charging can draw a power of 
1.4–1.9 kW. 
3.1.2. Level 2 charging 
Residential and Commercial charging stations incorporates Level 2 
charging. It needs the installation of a charging unit and a cable. It also 
requires single phase 240 V AC having a current rating up to 40 A for 
private places. In additional three phase 400 V AC having a current 
handling capacity up to 80A is needed for public installation [30]. The 
charging time of level 2 charger is faster than level 1 charger. Level 2 
charging mode takes 4 to 8 h for charging. This type of charging draws a 
power of 7.7–25.6 kW Power. There are some benefits offered for 
Electric Vehicle owners regarding installation of Level 2 home charging 
stations [31]. 
3.1.3. Level 3 charging 
Level 3 charging is also termed as DC (Direct Current) fast charging. 
It is considered as the most efficient and fastest charging method for 
Electric vehicles which gives answer regarding range anxiety of electric 
vehicles. DC Fast chargers are incorporated in commercial and public 
places. This type of charging provides 80% charge in 10–15 min. It is one 
of the promising technologies which will create a great impact in Elec­
tric vehicle charging stations. Level 3 chargers require a 480 V or higher 
rating of three phase circuits [32]. It is estimated that cost of DC fast 
charging differs according to the station and usage pattern [33]. Table 3 
describes some of the latest Electric Vehicles and its specifications in 
India. 
4. Design of electric vehicle charging station 
The paramount concern of Electric vehicle is to establish a well- 
equipped charging station that meets the requirements of Electric ve­
hicles such as range anxiety, charging facilities and minimum charging 
time. One of the threats faced by Electric vehicle is its charging time 
duration when compared with Internal Combustion vehicles which takes 
very few minutes for refuelling. Recently many technologies have 
developed such as dc fast charging stations which takes less than 20 min 
to recharge the vehicle [34]. A well-established charging station that 
equips advanced control techniques necessitates the growth of Electric 
vehicles. In view of developing a charging station one must note the 
adverse impacts of Electric Power grid. Due to the high power taken 
from Electric grid, there are various impacts created in the distribution 
network that includes voltage fluctuations, issues during peak time, 
Fig. 1. Variants of Transportation in E-Mobility.  
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
4
increased power losses, Transformer loading problems [35,36]. In view 
of minimizing the adverse effect of electric power grid while designing 
the EVCS, one must incorporate various renewable energy technologies 
such as solar, wind and other sources. Electrical energy can be stored 
during excess production of electricity and inexpensive (especially from 
renewable energy sources) or when there is less demand and it should be 
further returned to the grid especially during high electricity prices. In 
order to facilitate this Battery Energy Storage Systems are used. 
Table 1 
Overview of Transportation in E-Mobility.  
S. 
No 
Parameters 
Conventional Vehicle 
Battery Electric Vehicle 
Hydrogen Fuel cell Electric 
Vehicle 
Hybrid Electric Vehicle 
1 
Main Source 
Petrol/Diesel 
Battery 
Hydrogen and Fuel Cell Stacks 
Petrol/Diesel + Battery 
2 
Propulsion 
System 
Internal Combustion Engine 
(ICE) 
Electric motor drive with connected 
systems 
Electric motor drive with 
connected systems 
ICE + Electric motor drive 
3 
Refuelling 
System 
Petrol/Diesel 
Charging System 
Charging System 
Charging System + Petrol/Diesel 
4 
Advantages 
More refuelling stations are 
available, Range is good, 
Higher Efficiency, Remote Charging, 
Minimal Noise, Zero Emission 
Good Efficiency, Low charge 
time, Minimal Noise, Zero 
Emission 
Good Efficiency, Flexible to 
operate in low charge conditions, 
Low noise. 
5 
Disadvantages 
More Noise, Higher in 
generating the emissions, 
Running cost is high 
Range limitation, Charging Time is more, 
Charging Infrastructure, Still updating the 
technology. 
Poor in technology due to lack of 
infrastructure, Capital cost is 
high 
Technology Complex, Exhibits 
minimal emission,  
Fig. 2. Outline of the effects of Electric Vehicles [85].  
Table 2 
Various levels of charging modes.  
Different 
Conditions 
Power Levels 
Level-1 
Level-2 
Level-3 
Grid Voltage 
120/230 VAC 
and 12 A to 16 A 
208/430 VAC and 15 
A to 80 A 
308 to 600 VAC 
or VDC and max 
400 A 
Power Range 
<3 kW 
<20 kW 
>50 kW 
Approximate 
Charging Time 
17 h 
8 h 
<30 min 
Grid Supply Type 
1-Phase 
1-Phase or 3-Phase 
3-Phase 
Charging Type 
Slow Charge 
Semi-fast charge 
Fast Charging 
Battery Capacity 
20 kWh 
20 kWh 
20 kWh 
EV Charging Use 
Residential 
charger 
Commercial spaces 
such as malls, offices 
etc., 
EV Charging 
Station required  
Table 3 
Latest Electric Vehicles and its specifications in the country India [84].  
Electric 
Vehicle 
Battery 
Capacity 
(kWh) 
Battery 
type 
Home 
charging 
Direct 
Current fast 
charging 
Range 
(km) 
Hyundai 
Kona 
39.2 
Lithium 
-Polymer 
6 h 10 
min 
57 min 
452 
MG ZS EV 
44.5 
Lithium- 
ion 
16 h 
50 min 
340 
Tata Nexon 
EV 2020 
30.2 
Lithium- 
ion 
8.5 h 
60 min 
312 
Tata Tigor 
EV 2019 
21.5 
Lithium- 
ion 
11.5 h 
2 h 
213 
Mahindra e- 
Verito 
18.55 
Lithium- 
ion 
11.5 h 
1 h 30 min 
140 
Mahindra 
e2o 
15 
Lithium- 
ion 
7 h 20 
min 
1 h 35 min 
140  
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
5
4.1. Optimization techniques 
Optimization is done for determining the optimal location and 
thereby sizing of a charging station. Optimization is the process of 
minimizing or maximizing a particular function for obtaining best 
possible solution for a given problem under defined set of constraints. In 
order to facilitate the design of an EVCS, suitable optimization algorithm 
is necessary. Optimization for charging station has mainly four steps 
such as to identify appropriate location [37,38], charging the vehicle by 
using energy management approach and choosing an appropriate opti­
mization technique based on the objective [39]. Various Optimization 
techniques are used for the effective design of charging stations which 
are as followed:  
1 Game theory [40,41].  
2 Ant Colony Optimization [42].  
3 Learnable Partheno-Genetic Algorithm [43].  
4 Gravitational Search Algorithm [44].  
5 Genetic Algorithm [45].  
6 Mixed Integer linear programming [46].  
7 Differential evolution.  
8 Multi-Agent Particle Swarm Optimization [47]. 
In view of having an optimal design for charging station, it is 
essential to determine the design variable which is to be optimized. With 
reference to the literature [48], it can be identified that determining the 
size of charging station, number of vehicles in the charging station, state 
of the charge of battery, estimation of number of chargers to be placed in 
the station, energy storage system’s capacity, power of converters are 
essential parameters in the optimization. 
4.2. Configurations for the design of electric vehicle charging station 
Due to the increasing demand for Electric vehicles, there are large 
advances in the charging stations. In view of promoting the charging 
station it is essential to find the optimum location and sizing of charging 
station. In view of this various technologies and algorithms are devel­
oped. The different configurations of charging stations are categorized 
based on the utilization of power.  
1 Battery Swapping Technology.  
2 Charging Station utilizing only grid power.  
3 Charging Station utilizing grid power and Energy Storage System.  
4 Charging station utilizing grid power and Renewable energy.  
5 Charging Station utilizing grid power, Renewable energy and Energy 
Storage System.  
6 Off-grid Charging Station. 
4.2.1. Battery swapping technology (BST) 
Exchanging the completely depleted battery or nearly depleted bat­
tery of electric vehicles with a fully charged battery is known as Battery 
swapping. Due to the rapid deployment of Electric vehicles, there needs 
an urge to develop Battery swap stations. Optimum models for battery 
swap stations in the distribution systems are developed in [26]. A 
modified differential evolution algorithm is used for solving the pro­
posed method. In order to attain optimal operation in the Battery 
Swapping Stations, many optimization techniques are proposed in [27, 
28]. 
By adopting the BST, the life of the battery packs will increase due to 
slow charging and it generates the revenue to fleet owners in longer run. 
The integration with grid or RESS (wind, solar and other modes of 
charging) is easier due to less complexity. The main drawback of BST is 
it can be adopted for less kWh due to heavy weight of the packing 
technology, huge stock is required which is high capital investment and 
charging infrastructure is required. 
4.2.2. Charging station utilizing only grid power 
Due to the rapid rise in the electric vehicle market, there needs an 
urge to develop DC Fast charging stations. DC Fast charging stations are 
similar to petroleum stations where charging of electric vehicle is done 
within a few minutes. It is considered as the fastest charging mode. A 
careful planning in the design of charging station is essential to regulate 
the increasing demand of power taken from grid. Fig. 3 represents an 
outline of charging station utilizing only grid power. Sizing of charging 
station for Plug-in Electric vehicle is done using Markovian Demand 
Characterization in [49]. Here, optimal sizing of waiting spaces and 
chargers are determined based on the demand for charging. 
The extension of this work can be carried out considering distributed 
generators, Power distribution network and transportation network. The 
improvement of voltage profile and reduction in network losses is per­
formed in [50]. A modified primal-dual interior point algorithm 
(MPDIPA) is used to solve the optimal problem aiming to decrease the 
cost of the charging station. The factors such as traffic conditions, de­
mand for charging is referred to be considered in the future. Minimi­
zation of total cost of charging station is also done in [34]. The cost of 
the land, charging cost, losses in the grid and vehicle due to the travel 
are also included here. A Mixed Integer Non-Linear (MINLP) optimiza­
tion is done for appropriate placement of charging station and sizing. 
This is then solved by Genetic Algorithm. In order to support the long 
distance travel, it is essential to design location and capacity of charging 
station [51]. The optimization is done under a fixed budget constraint 
solved by a customized neighborhood search strategy. The extension of 
this work can be carried out using multiple charging facilities. Optimal 
allocation of fast charging stations are performed using Binary Firefly 
Algorithm(BFA) in [52]. 
The objective of the proposed algorithm focuses on minimization of 
cost with respect to transportation energy loss (TEL), substation energy 
loss (SEL) and build-up (BU) cost due to charging of EV. In the literature 
[53], Grid Partition Method and Genetic Algorithm is used for planning 
charging station for EV. Here the solution obtained is a local optimum 
rather than a global optimum solution. 
4.2.3. Charging station utilizing grid power and energy storage system 
The increasing demand for electrical power in the charging stations 
is a great threat faced by distribution network. Therefore, increasing 
demand for electrical energy necessitate the need for Energy Storage 
Systems [54]. Fig. 4 represents a charging station utilizing grid power 
and Energy storage system. Energy Storage System (ESS) not only en­
hances distribution network performance but also station cost. Imple­
mentation of ESS in a fast charging station is done as a prototype [55]. A 
LabVIEW (visual programming language) control interface is also 
implemented. Optimum size of a fast charging station storage system is 
determined by [56]. 
The main objective carried out in the proposed method is to reduce 
storage system cost and thereby cost of the charging station. Simulations 
were carried out using MATLAB-Simulink. A control strategy was 
implemented along with a flywheel energy storage system (FESS) in 
[57]. Aiming to sustain the continuous charging process of the battery 
FESS is incorporated. The proposal was validated by a lab-scale proto­
type. A simulation model has been introduced to find the optimal design 
of ESS in [58]. It is estimated that lithium-ion batteries will be a 
prominent energy storage technology by 2025. Computational pro­
gramming was done using Python programming. Deployment of fast 
charging stations are also implemented for battery bus systems in [59]. 
The model suggests that energy storage systems are a real solution for 
the growing demand for charging. The suggested model is a mixed 
integer linear programming model and solved using a CPLEX solver on a 
Dell computer. 
4.2.4. Charging station utilizing grid power and renewable energy 
Rapid deployment of electric vehicles has led to increasing demand 
for electrical energy. Aiming to meet the surplus energy demand, 
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
6
utilization of renewable energy sources along with grid power are 
needed for the design of charging station. Fig. 5 represents a charging 
station utilizing grid power and renewable energy. Aiming for an opti­
mum and quality exchange of power, Fast EV Charging station are in­
tegrated with grid in [60]. Here a solar Photovoltaic (PV) generation 
system is integrated with the fast charging station for an Energy Man­
agement Strategy. 
An optimum energy management is obtained by incorporating solar 
PV and thereby reducing the losses. Simulations were carried out using 
MATLAB-Simulink. In addition to sizing and placing of charging sta­
tions, it is also focused on sizing and placement of distributed genera­
tions, shunt capacitors by using Grasshopper optimization Algorithm 
[GOA] in [61]. This improves the power factor of the substation and 
thereby reduces the losses. Fast converging properties of GOA over 
Genetic Algorithm [GA] over Particle Swarm Optimization [PSO] is also 
analyzed. An optimal static scheduling scheme for charging is proposed 
in [62]. Particle Swarm Optimization is used for the proposed method 
and later compared with Priority Algorithms for its significance. 
A micro grid concept is also carried out for reducing the load from 
the grid and charging cost by properly transferring the EV loads. Aiming 
for reduction in power loss, charging cost and strengthening the voltage 
stability a Differential Evolution Algorithm is used in [63]. Similarly, an 
optimal placement and sizing of Renewable Energy Sources and Electric 
Vehicle charging stations simultaneously is done using hybrid optimi­
zation technique such as Genetic Algorithm –Particle Swarm Optimi­
zation (GA-PSO) in [64]. This methodology reduces losses, voltage 
deviations and cost by using Electric vehicles as active power sources. 
Even though incorporation of renewable energy sources along with grid 
power in the charging stations reduces the burden in the distribution 
network, a storage system is essential especially during peak times. 
Fig. 3. Charging Station utilizing only grid power.  
Fig. 4. Charging Station utilizing grid power and Energy Storage System [ESS].  
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
7
4.2.5. Charging station utilizing grid power, renewable energy and energy 
storage system (ESS) 
The increasing demand for electrical energy in the charging stations 
will affect the performance of grid. Therefore, it is essential to incor­
porate renewable energy sources along with the charging station to 
support the grid by providing additional power especially during peak 
times. ESS are installed in the charging stations to store and release the 
energy thereby balancing the issues faced from power grid. Installations 
of Energy Storage Systems in the charging stations helps to decrease the 
uncertainty in renewable energy power generation. Batteries are mainly 
used as storage systems. 
Fig. 6 represents a charging station utilizing grid power, renewable 
Fig. 5. Charging station utilizing grid power and Renewable energyTop of Form.  
Fig. 6. Charging Station utilizing grid power, Renewable energy and Energy Storage System (ESS).  
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
8
energy and Energy storage system. Integration of charging station with 
grid and wind energy which is solved using GAMS(General Algebraic 
Modelling System) tool box is done in [65]. The station contains slow, 
medium and fast chargers. The proposed method contains a storage 
system in which 85% of its energy can be discharged in an hour. Since 
solar energy have more uncertainties and variations compared to wind 
energy, the proposed method suggests to model solar energy in future. 
Design of fast charging station incorporating renewable energy sources 
and storage systems are performed using Genetic Algorithm [66,67]. 
With reference to the literature it can concluded that incorporation of 
renewable energy sources along with storage systems lessen the high 
impact on the grid. But it needs a large investment for the imple­
mentation. EVCS is designed with slow, medium and fast chargers in 
[68]. 
The station contains Battery Energy storage system, diesel generator 
and solar panels. In future environmental pollutions, hydrogen and fuel 
cell vehicles, effects on upstream electric network can be incorporated in 
the model. An efficient design of charging station for optimal power 
management is performed using MATLAB/Simulink [69]. In the pro­
posed method EVCS is integrated with solar energy and Battery Energy 
Storage System. The charging of battery electric vehicles at work places 
in Netherlands is investigated using solar energy [70]. It was estimated 
that usage of a small storage system of 10 kWh decreased the energy 
exchange from the grid by 25%. The outcome from this literature reveals 
that it was not so effective during winter season. In order to minimize 
the lifecycle cost, optimal design of EVCS is done considering environ­
mental emissions [71] Architecture of Charging Station design is done 
using HOMER Software. The method highlights that the usage of solar 
energy with ESS based isolated EVCS could have more benefits through 
grid connectivity. 
An optimal sizing of a stand-alone micro grid with renewable energy 
sources and storage systems is done in [72]. The proposed design is done 
using Simulink Design Optimization [SDO]. The proposed method pro­
vide energy for charging electric and fuel cell vehicles. The main gap in 
the proposed method is that very few algorithms can be used with SDO. 
A DC micro grid set up is incorporated for fully electric and plug-in 
hybrid vehicles in [73].The proposed architecture incorporates vehicle 
to grid operations, renewable energy sources and energy storage system. 
ESS plays a vital role in reducing the impact from the grid. In addition to 
this hierarchical energy management is adopted for real time applica­
tion in [74]. 
Monte Carlo simulation is adopted to deal with uncertainties, Ge­
netic Algorithm is used for optimization, Renewable energy, ESS and 
charging stations are considered for a new expansion model in [75]. 
Here, K-means clustering algorithm is used which is solved in Matlab 
programming. The proposed work can be improved in the future by 
considering the possibility that Electric vehicle can inject power into the 
network when unused. A combination of multi agent system and particle 
swarm optimization known as multi-agent particle swarm optimization 
(MAPSO) is proposed for optimization of grid connected renewable 
energy sources, energy storage and EVCS in [47]. The results confirmed 
that it has more accuracy and convergence speed when compared with 
Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) and it minimizes the Cost of Elec­
tricity [COE]. An optimum energy management approach is proposed 
for the minimal intake of grid power and storage of PV energy in [76]. 
The model is simulated in Matlab/Simulink. A prototype model was also 
developed and experimented in the laboratory. Optimal operation 
model of PV assisted charging station is built in [77]. 
The model is solved by Particle Swarm optimization model. It is 
observed that through the appropriate coordination of Electric vehicles, 
PV power generation units and energy storage devices, optimum per­
formance of charging station can be achieved. In [78] modelling of EVCS 
expansion is proposed using a hybrid algorithm combining Sample 
Average Approximation and Progressive Hedging Algorithm. It is rec­
ommended that different conditions of state-of-charge (SOC), traffic 
patterns, variations in electric power could be included in the future 
expansion of this proposed model. Integration of renewable energy 
sources along with ESS with grid can store energy coming from 
renewable energy sources and also can feedback to grid when required. 
Utilization of renewable energy sources reduces the impact of high 
power taken from the grid especially during the peak times. 
4.2.6. Off-grid charging station 
Off-grid charging stations are powered from distributed energy 
sources rather than utility grid. Therefore, one must give utmost care in 
the design and implementation of off-grid charging stations. An optimal 
Algorithm to design and implement off-grid charging station for electric 
and fuel cell vehicles is proposed in [79]. The uncertainty in the pa­
rameters as well as design of charging station is done by stochastic 
programming. Diesel generator is also included in the charging station 
thereby reduction of cost by 15%. Implementation of renewable energy 
systems in an off-grid EVCS for a villages is proposed by [80]. 
The proposed strategy uses wind energy, solar energy and an ESS to 
prevent the usage of diesel generators. However, there are several fac­
tors that one must encounter in order to propose a charging station 
utilizing renewable energy. A charging station consisting of renewable 
energy sources and fuel cell system for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles is 
proposed in [81]. Fuel cell system act as the storage device instead of 
batteries in the charging station. A microcontroller MC68HC11E9 pro­
gramming is utilized here. In future, a grid tied version of proposed 
charging station is recommended. A solar charging station for electric 
vehicles incorporating storage backup is modelled in [82]. The proposed 
charging station is environment friendly. A micro grid connected with 
renewable energy sources is proposed for electric vehicle charging sta­
tions in [83]. The main focus is to reduce the power flow issues faced in 
United Kingdom national transmission system. The proposed method is 
simulated using MATLAB-Simulink tool boxes. Even though these 
technologies are more environmentally friendly compared to other 
techniques, while designing these charging stations one must consider 
the availability of the resources in order to meet the increasing demand 
for electric supply for the charging stations. The Table 4 describes the 
merits and demerits of various EV Charging Configurations. 
5. Results and discussion 
This section discusses the overall outlook of the review study. In view 
of developing a pollution free environment, EV is considered as a 
promising forthcoming option. There is a tremendous increase in the 
development of electric vehicles in order to promote a pollution free 
environment. Development of various charging stations are in progress 
for meeting the increasing demand for power. There are different op­
tions in which electric vehicle can be charged. In view of developing a 
public charging station, level 3 charging mode, which is also termed as 
DC fast charging is the best option for charging within short time 
duration. It can be implemented in public charging stations similar to 
petrol/diesel stations. Level 3 charging mode can be implemented in the 
electric vehicle charging stations in order to charge the vehicles within 
short time. It usually requires high power circuits for charging. It gives a 
solution concerned with range anxiety of electric vehicles. 
The various factors that can be noted for building up an effective 
charging station. 
5.1. Identification of optimal location 
It is essential to have an optimal location for building an effective fast 
charging station. One must consider the availability of uninterrupted 
grid power, land cost, environmental factors for the selection of an apt 
location for the charging station. It is also noted that placing a charging 
station should be done in such a way that electric vehicles can be easily 
accessed to the charging station [37].Travelling behavior of the electric 
vehicle should also be taken into account in consideration of suitable 
location for the charging station [38]. Charging station utilizing only 
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
9
grid power creates various impacts in the distribution network [25]. 
Therefore, it is essential to incorporate Renewable energy sources along 
with the charging station. Integration of Battery Energy Storage Systems 
helps in reducing the uncertainty associated with renewable energy 
sources. In order to determine suitable location for charging station, it is 
worthwhile to note the availability of renewable energy sources. The 
variations associated with renewable energy sources should be analyzed 
for the location of charging station. 
5.2. Grid connected, renewable energy-based charging station 
The various configurations of the charging station which is catego­
rized based on the power utilized can be studied in Section 4. The large- 
scale deployment of electric vehicles leads to the development of well- 
equipped charging station. Due to the penetration of the increasing 
number of electric vehicles, there is an urge to extract more power from 
the grid for the EVCS. Therefore, a careful analysis in the design of 
charging station is essential to meet the increasing demand for power 
needed for charging the electric vehicles. Energy Storage Systems play a 
vital role in storing excess energy and release the energy when there is 
excess demand. Therefore, it is essential to incorporate battery energy 
storage systems along with the charging station. Table 5 summarizes the 
review aspects analyzed in Grid connected charging station. 
Due to the tremendous increase in the development of electric ve­
hicles, there is a huge demand for electrical energy to meet the charging 
demand for electric vehicles. Integrating charging station with renew­
able energy sources such as solar, wind etc. lessen the impact of high 
power taken from the grid. Implementing energy storage systems in the 
charging station provides a solution for the uncertainty in the renewable 
energy power production. In order to integrate renewable energy along 
with grid connected charging station, it is essential to find out an 
appropriate location where renewable energy is abundant in nature. An 
appropriate energy management system should be maintained to have 
an optimal design of charging station. Table 6 analysis the review as­
pects carried out in grid connected charging station along with renew­
able energy. 
5.3. Selection of optimization technique 
A cost-effective charging station utilizing advanced techniques is 
essential for the successful implementation of charging station. Table 7 
summarizes the techniques used in the design of charging station. It can 
be noted that Genetic Algorithm can handle complex problems and is 
faster in finding solutions to the problems [34,53,66,67,74]. Binary 
firefly Algorithm can also be used to solve large scale problems [51,52]. 
It can be analyzed from the literature that differential evolution algo­
rithm requires huge computation time when compared with Genetic 
Algorithm-Particle Swarm Optimization hybrid Algorithm [63]. GOA 
and Particle Swarm Optimization are also used to solve problems 
regarding optimization [62,77]. It can be inferred that Multi-Agent 
Particle swarm optimization have more accuracy and convergence 
speed when compared with Particle Swarm Optimization [47]. Grass­
hopper optimization technique have fast converging behavior when 
compared with Genetic Algorithm and Particle Swarm optimization 
[61]. 
5.4. Energy management approach 
The upcoming transport industry which solely depends on electric 
vehicle, construction of EVCS plays a vital role. With reference to the 
previous literatures focusing on design of EVCS it can be identified that 
in order to reduce the negative impacts from the grid, incorporation of 
renewable energy and storage systems are essential. An appropriate 
energy management is essential for maintaining optimum flow of energy 
among the various components in the charging station. An optimum 
energy management is focused based on the power flow in [60]. 
Renewable energy integration with the charging station reduces the 
dependency from the grid. Energy management of the charging station 
should be simulated for evaluating the station’s operations [66,67]. An 
appropriate co-ordination between renewable energy sources, storage 
system, grid with the charging station is needed for the power man­
agement [69,74]. The main focus of the energy management approach is 
the minimal usage of grid power and maximize the usage of renewable 
energy [76]. 
Table 4 
Overview of EV charging configurations.  
EV Configurations 
Merits 
Demerits 
Battery Swapping 
Technology 
• Life of the battery 
packs will increase. 
• Feet owners will 
get benefited in 
longer run. 
• Waiting time is less. 
• Initial cost is high to 
setup. 
• Charging Infrastructure is 
required. 
• The global OEM’s need to 
standardize the battery 
voltage, energy density and 
formfactors. 
Charging Station utilizing 
only grid power. 
• Running cost will 
be less. 
• It can be helpful in 
peak load levelling. 
• Easy in operation. 
• Overloading the grid. 
• Charging infrastructure is 
required with high capital 
cost. 
Charging Station utilizing 
grid power and Energy 
Storage System. 
• Flexible in 
operating when 
failure occurs. 
• ESS will give 
benefits to the 
owners. 
• Complex in system. 
• Integration with grid is a 
major drawback. 
• Capital investment is 
high. 
Charging station utilizing 
grid power and 
Renewable energy. 
• Renewable Energy 
Station will generate 
the revenue. 
• Capital investment is 
high. 
• Implement new/novel 
efficient algorithms which 
it increases cost of the 
system. 
Charging Station utilizing 
grid power, Renewable 
energy and Energy 
Storage System. 
• Running cost is too 
low. 
• Helpful to charge 
multiple sources at a 
time. 
• Complex in operation. 
• Designing the system with 
effective control algorithms 
will requires more capital 
investment. 
• Finding a faulty a system 
is difficulty. 
Off-grid Charging Station 
• It doesn’t depend 
on the grid power. 
• It can be 
implemented 
anywhere from 
remote places. 
• Remote grids are 
overloaded, need to 
monitor simultaneously.  
Table 5 
Summary of the review aspects analyzed in Grid connected charging station.  
Refs. 
Highlights 
Future Scope 
[49, 
53] 
• Optimal number of chargers, 
waiting spaces in the fast charging 
stations are found out. 
• Inclusion of Distributed 
generators, Power distribution 
network and transportation 
network. 
[50] 
• Minimize total cost associated 
with charging station. 
• Considering traffic pattern, 
charging demand of the electric 
vehicles. 
[50, 
34, 
52] 
• Reduces network losses. 
• Considers travel loss, land cost. 
• Uncertainty in the input 
parameters should be analyzed. 
[51] 
• Solves large problem. 
• 5% optimality gap. 
• The uncertainty in charging 
behaviors should be estimated in 
the design model. 
[55] 
• Peak shaving functions 
implemented. 
• More complex power system can 
be used for the analysis.  
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
10
5.5. Off-grid mode 
In order to have an environment friendly charging station one can 
address off-grid charging mode. Off-grid charging mode doesn’t depend 
on grid power. Off-grid charging station can be implemented in remote 
units. But one must give utmost care for meeting the increasing demand 
for electrical energy. Section 4.2.6 addresses off-grid charging mode. 
Here charging station regarding off-grid mode is discussed. Off-grid 
mode can be implemented where abundant amount of renewable en­
ergy is available. But uncertainty of renewable energy production is one 
of the key concerns. 
5.6. Future research recommendations & research gaps 
As per the literature survey of this paper, future research recom­
mendations are jotted as follows:  
• Improving the V2G technology can avoid peak demand sharing in the 
power systems network. This can be cost beneficial to fleet owners by 
selling the power. Upcoming fellow researchers have to focus more 
on the power electronics technology to improve the V2G’s.  
• As of now many literatures are focused on the grid connected EV 
charging stations and there are few non-conventional EV charging 
stations are developing. However, there is a research gap in inte­
grating the EV charging station with non-conventional sources if this 
can be sorted by improving the grid integration. Moreover, the major 
advantage is the running cost of the electricity will scale down in 
longer period.  
• In the present EV marketing strategies competitors offering the 
higher mileage’s, if the researchers will consider the advancements 
in regenerative braking strategies.  
• In recent years many optimal algorithms have been developed in 
finding out the optimal locations and sizing. But the efficiency of the 
system is decreases due to improvements are carried in conventional 
algorithms. If researchers will focus on artificial intelligence and 
machine learning based algorithms which will improve the efficiency 
of the overall power system network.  
• If BST can be improved the lifespan of the batteries will increases by 
reducing the no of charge and discharge cycles.  
• Researchers may focus on over current, under voltage stress and 
losses in transmitting the power will reduces the impact on 
transformers. 
A total of 97 publications were referred in the review study. Fig. 7 
shows the status of the referred publications year-wise. References were 
taken from various reputated journals with high citations. And also 
Fig. 7 shows that most of the referred publications were taken from the 
year 2019. Fig. 8 shows various categories in which the review paper is 
arranged. It can be seen that 50% of review paper is focused on the 
design aspects of EVCS. Various optimization methods and techniques 
are incorporated to promote the deployment of EVCS. 
6. Conclusion 
The review study gives an overview of electric vehicles, impacts of 
electric vehicles, different charging modes, and various design methods 
for EVCS. Here a set of publications are identified from the year 1997 to 
2020 in Fig. 7. Numerous literatures were brought out in such a way that 
various advancements in the charging station design are identified. 
Charging station design can be categorized into different segments 
depending on the power utilized. Due to the tremendous increase in the 
Table 6 
Summary of the review aspects analyzed in Grid connected charging station along with Renewable energy sources.  
Refs. 
Highlights 
Future Scope  
[60, 
61]  
• An optimum energy management is maintained.  
• Reduction of losses.  
• Unpredictable nature of renewable energy sources.  
• Arrival and departure of large number of EVs.  
• Variable market price. 
[63, 
64]    
• Reduction in Power loss.  
• Improves voltage stability.  
• Reduction of charging costs.  
• Uncertainty in input parameters. 
[66, 
67]  
• Incorporation of renewable energy sources along with storage systems lessen the high 
impact on the grid.  
• Investment is high.  
[70]  
• Design of Photovoltaic system is performed.  
• 10 kWh local storage.  
• Reduction of grid power 25%.  
• Solar tracking is not effective in winter. 
[71, 
73]   
• Environmental emissions are considered.   
• Vehicle to grid operations, renewable energy sources and energy storage system are carried 
out.  
• High cost. 
[75]  
• Investment needed for renewable energy sources, charging station, distribution network, 
energy storage system is jointly considered.  
• Uncertainty associated with renewable energy sources are considered.  
• Electric vehicle can inject power into the network when unused. 
[78]  
• Solves large size problems in a bounded time.  
• Variations in the state-of-charge, traffic patterns and electric power 
should be analyzed in the future.  
Table 7 
Summary of Techniques used in the Design of EVCS.  
Configurations for the design 
of EVCS 
Techniques/Optimization methods used 
Utilizing only grid power. 
Markovian Demand Characterization, Modified 
primal-dual interior point algorithm, Genetic 
Algorithm, Customized neighborhood search 
strategy, Grid Partition method, Binary Firefly 
Algorithm. 
Utilizing grid power and ESS 
Mathematical modeling, Python programming, 
mixed integer linear programming model, Visual 
programming language 
Utilizing grid power and 
Renewable energy 
Mathematical modeling, Grasshopper optimization 
Algorithm, Particle Swarm Optimization, Priority 
Algorithm, Differential Evolution Algorithm, 
Genetic Algorithm –Particle Swarm Optimization. 
Utilizing grid power, 
Renewable energy and ESS 
Multi-Agent Particle Swarm Optimization, Mixed 
integer linear programming, Genetic Algorithm, 
Stochastic programming, Mathematical modeling, 
K-means clustering Algorithm, Particle Swarm 
optimization, Sample Average Approximation and 
Progressive Hedging Algorithm. 
Off-grid Charging Station 
Stochastic Optimization Programming, 
Microcontroller programming, Mathematical 
modeling  
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
11
electric vehicles, the demand for utilizing electrical energy increases. 
This creates a huge impact in the grid. Therefore, it is essential to 
incorporate renewable energy technologies with grid. Due to the un­
certainties in the renewable energy, it is essential to incorporate energy 
storage systems. ESS can be used to store energy during excess renew­
able energy production and release energy when required. The major 
highlights of grid connected, renewable energy-based charging station, 
off-grid mode is analyzed in the review study. Different methodologies, 
optimization techniques and future scope are summarized and presented 
in the review study for providing an optimal design for the charging 
station. It can also identify that the usage of electric vehicle is directly 
proportional to development of charging stations. Therefore, one must 
give prior importance to the deployment of electric vehicles for a sus­
tainable environment. 
Declaration of Competing Interest 
Authors having NO conflict of Interest. 
References 
[1] G. Fontaras, N.G. Zacharof, B. Ciuffo, Fuel consumption and CO2 emissions from 
passenger cars in Europe – laboratory versus real-world emissions, Prog. Energy 
Combust. Sci. 60 (2017) 97–131, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pecs.2016.12.004. 
[2] J. Gao, et al., Fuel consumption and exhaust emissions of diesel vehicles in 
worldwide harmonized light vehicles test cycles and their sensitivities to eco- 
driving factors, Energy Convers. Manag. 196 (2019) 605–613, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.enconman.2019.06.038. 
[3] H. Hao, Z. Liu, F. Zhao, W. Li, W. Hang, Scenario analysis of energy consumption 
and greenhouse gas emissions from China’s passenger vehicles, Energy 91 (2015) 
151–159, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.energy.2015.08.054. 
[4] F. Li, et al., Regional comparison of electric vehicle adoption and emission 
reduction effects in China, Resour. Conserv. Recycl. 149 (September 2018) (2019) 
714–726, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2019.01.038. 
[5] L. Yuan, H. Zhao, H. Chen, B. Ren, Nonlinear MPC-based slip control for electric 
vehicles with vehicle safety constraints, Mechatronics 38 (2016) 1–15, https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.mechatronics.2016.05.006. 
[6] E.E. Michaelides, Thermodynamics and energy usage of electric vehicles, Energy 
Convers. Manag. 203 (August 2019) (2020), 112246, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
enconman.2019.112246. 
[7] C. King, B. Datta, EV charging tariffs that work for EV owners, utilities and society, 
Electr. J. 31 (9) (2018) 24–27, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tej.2018.10.010. 
[8] B. Csonka, C. Csisz´ar, Determination of charging infrastructure location for electric 
vehicles, Transp. Res. Proc. 27 (2017) 768–775, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
trpro.2017.12.115. 
[9] X. Shi, J. Pan, H. Wang, H. Cai, Battery electric vehicles: what is the minimum 
range required? Energy 166 (2019) 352–358, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
energy.2018.10.056. 
[10] S.H. Chung, T. Tancogne-Dejean, J. Zhu, H. Luo, T. Wierzbicki, Failure in lithium- 
ion batteries under transverse indentation loading, J. Power Sources 389 
(September 2017) (2018) 148–159, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jpowsour.2018.04.003. 
[11] P. Tan, et al., Advances and challenges in lithium-air batteries, Appl. Energy 204 
(2017) 780–806, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2017.07.054. 
[12] F.H. Gandoman, et al., Concept of reliability and safety assessment of lithium-ion 
batteries in electric vehicles: basics, progress, and challenges, Appl. Energy 251 
(January) (2019), 113343, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2019.113343. 
[13] T. Gnann, T.S. Stephens, Z. Lin, P. Pl¨otz, C. Liu, J. Brokate, What drives the market 
for plug-in electric vehicles? - a review of international PEV market diffusion 
models, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 93 (March) (2018) 158–164, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.rser.2018.03.055. 
[14] J. García-Villalobos, I. Zamora, J.I. San Martín, F.J. Asensio, V. Aperribay, Plug-in 
electric vehicles in electric distribution networks: a review of smart charging 
approaches, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 38 (2014) 717–731, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.rser.2014.07.040. 
[15] B. Lane, B. Shaffer, G.S. Samuelsen, Plug-in fuel cell electric vehicles: a California 
case study, Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 42 (20) (2017) 14294–14300, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.ijhydene.2017.03.035. 
[16] N. Sulaiman, M.A. Hannan, A. Mohamed, E.H. Majlan, W.R. Wan Daud, A review 
on energy management system for fuel cell hybrid electric vehicle: issues and 
challenges, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 52 (2015) 802–814, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.rser.2015.07.132. 
Fig. 7. Status of Reviewed References.  
Fig. 8. Categories of Review paper.  
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
12
[17] V. Das, S. Padmanaban, K. Venkitusamy, R. Selvamuthukumaran, F. Blaabjerg, 
P. Siano, Recent advances and challenges of fuel cell based power system 
architectures and control – a review, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 73 (January) 
(2017) 10–18, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2017.01.148. 
[18] C.Y. Li, G.P. Liu, Optimal fuzzy power control and management of fuel cell/battery 
hybrid vehicles, J. Power Sources 192 (2) (2009) 525–533, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.jpowsour.2009.03.007. 
[19] W. Zhou, L. Yang, Y. Cai, T. Ying, Dynamic programming for New energy vehicles 
based on their work modes part I: electric vehicles and hybrid electric vehicles, 
J. Power Sources 406 (September) (2018) 151–166, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jpowsour.2018.10.047. 
[20] X. Li, Y. Wang, D. Yang, Z. Chen, Adaptive energy management strategy for fuel 
cell/battery hybrid vehicles using Pontryagin’s Minimal Principle, J. Power 
Sources 440 (August) (2019), 227105, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
jpowsour.2019.227105. 
[21] W. Su, M.Y. Chow, Performance evaluation of an EDA-based large-scale plug-in 
hybrid electric vehicle charging algorithm, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 3 (1) (2012) 
308–315, https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2011.2151888. 
[22] H. Yoo, S.K. Sul, Y. Park, J. Jeong, System integration and power flow management 
for a series hybrid electric vehicle using super-capacitors and batteries, in: 
Conference Proceedings - IEEE Applied Power Electronics Conference and 
Exposition - APEC 44, 2007, pp. 1032–1037, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
APEX.2007.357642. 
[23] X. Tang, W. Yang, X. Hu, D. Zhang, A novel simplified model for torsional vibration 
analysis of a series-parallel hybrid electric vehicle, Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 85 
(2017) 329–338, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ymssp.2016.08.020. 
[24] X. Zeng, J. Wang, A parallel hybrid electric vehicle energy management strategy 
using stochastic model predictive control with road grade preview, IEEE Trans. 
Control Syst. Technol. 23 (6) (2015) 2416–2423, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TCST.2015.2409235. 
[25] F. Un-Noor, S. Padmanaban, L. Mihet-Popa, M.N. Mollah, E. Hossain, 
A comprehensive study of key electric vehicle (EV) components, technologies, 
challenges, impacts, and future direction of development, Energies 10 (8) (2017) 
1–82, https://doi.org/10.3390/en10081217. 
[26] Y. Zheng, Z.Y. Dong, Y. Xu, K. Meng, J.H. Zhao, J. Qiu, Electric vehicle battery 
charging/swap stations in distribution systems: comparison study and optimal 
planning, IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 29 (1) (2014) 221–229, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/TPWRS.2013.2278852. 
[27] F. Ahmad, M.S. Alam, S.M. Shariff, A cost-efficient energy management system for 
battery swapping station, IEEE Syst. J. 13 (4) (2019) 4355–4364, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/JSYST.2018.2890569. 
[28] M.R. Sarker, H. Pandˇzi´c, M.A. Ortega-Vazquez, Optimal operation and services 
scheduling for an electric vehicle battery swapping station, IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 
30 (2) (2015) 901–910, https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2014.2331560. 
[29] T.G. San Rom´an, I. Momber, M.R. Abbad, ´A. S´anchez Miralles, Regulatory 
framework and business models for charging plug-in electric vehicles: 
infrastructure, agents, and commercial relationships, Energy Policy 39 (10) (2011) 
6360–6375, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.enpol.2011.07.037. 
[30] S. Schey, Electric Vehicle Charging Infrastructure Deployment Guidelines British 
Columbia. Canada, Osti Gov, 2009, pp. 1–11. 
[31] S. Wee, M. Coffman, S.La Croix, Data on U.S. state-level electric vehicle 000, Data 
Br 23 (2019), 103658, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2019.01.006. 
[32] S. Bhattacharyya, P. Dutta, Handbook of research on swarm intelligence in 
engineering, Handb. Res. Swarm Intell. Eng. 2 (2015) 1–743, https://doi.org/ 
10.4018/978-1-4666-8291-7. 
[33] M. Muratori, E. Kontou, J. Eichman, Electricity rates for electric vehicle direct 
current fast charging in the United States, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 113 
(October 2018) (2019), 109235, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.06.042. 
[34] P. Sadeghi-Barzani, A. Rajabi-Ghahnavieh, H. Kazemi-Karegar, Optimal fast 
charging station placing and sizing, Appl. Energy 125 (2014) 289–299, https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2014.03.077. 
[35] H. Shareef, M.M. Islam, A. Mohamed, A review of the stage-of-the-art charging 
technologies, placement methodologies, and impacts of electric vehicles, Renew. 
Sustain. Energy Rev. 64 (2016) 403–420, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
rser.2016.06.033. 
[36] C.H. Dharmakeerthi, N. Mithulananthan, T.K. Saha, Impact of electric vehicle fast 
charging on power system voltage stability, Int. J. Electron. Power Energy Syst. 57 
(2014) 241–249, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2013.12.005. 
[37] A.Y.S. Lam, Y. Leung, S. Member, Electric vehicle charging station placement : 
formulation, complexity, and solutions, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 5 (6) (2014) 
2846–2856, https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2014.2344684. 
[38] N. Shahraki, H. Cai, M. Turkay, M. Xu, Optimal locations of electric public charging 
stations using real world vehicle travel patterns, Transp. Res. Part D 41 (2015) 
(2020) 165–176, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.trd.2015.09.011. 
[39] I. Rahman, P.M. Vasant, B.S.M. Singh, M. Abdullah-Al-Wadud, N. Adnan, Review 
of recent trends in optimization techniques for plug-in hybrid, and electric vehicle 
charging infrastructures, Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 58 (2016) 1039–1047, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2015.12.353. 
[40] F. Malandrino, C. Casetti, C.F. Chiasserini, M. Reineri, A game-theory analysis of 
charging stations selection by EV drivers, Perform. Eval. 83–84 (2015) 16–31, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.peva.2014.11.001. 
[41] Y. Xiong, J. Gan, B. An, C. Miao, A.L.C. Bazzan, Optimal electric vehicle fast 
charging station placement based on game theoretical framework, IEEE Trans. 
Intell. Transp. Syst. 19 (8) (2018) 2493–2504, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TITS.2017.2754382. 
[42] S. Yang, M. Wu, X. Yao, J. Jiang, Load modeling and identification based on ant 
colony algorithms for EV charging stations, IEEE Trans. Power Syst. 30 (4) (2015) 
1997–2003, https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2014.2352263. 
[43] H. Yang, S. Yang, Y. Xu, E. Cao, M. Lai, Z. Dong, Electric vehicle route optimization 
considering time-of-use electricity price by learnable partheno-genetic algorithm, 
IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 6 (2) (2015) 657–666, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TSG.2014.2382684. 
[44] M. Chen, Z. Liu, X. Zhou, M. Xie, Y. Fu, Optimal planning of electric vehicle 
charging station based on gravitational search algorithm, in: 2nd IEEE Conference 
on Energy Internet Energy Systems Integration EI2 2018, 2018, pp. 1–6, https:// 
doi.org/10.1109/EI2.2018.8582006. 
[45] M.M. Vazifeh, H. Zhang, P. Santi, C. Ratti, Optimizing the deployment of electric 
vehicle charging stations using pervasive mobility data, Transp. Res. Part A Policy 
Pract. 121 (January 2017) (2019) 75–91, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
tra.2019.01.002. 
[46] C. Bian, H. Li, F. Wallin, A. Avelin, L. Lin, Z. Yu, Finding the optimal location for 
public charging stations - a GIS-based MILP approach, Energy Proc. 158 (2019) 
6582–6588, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.egypro.2019.01.071. 
[47] Q. Dai, J. Liu, Q. Wei, Optimal photovoltaic/battery energy storage/electric vehicle 
charging station design based onmulti-agent particle swarm optimization 
algorithm, Sustainability 11 (7) (2019), https://doi.org/10.3390/su11071973. 
[48] C.T. Ma, System planning of grid-connected electric vehicle charging stations and 
key technologies: a review, Energies 12 (21) (2019), https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
en12214201. 
[49] Q. Yang, S. Sun, S. Deng, Q. Zhao, M. Zhou, Optimal sizing of PEV fast charging 
stations with markovian demand characterization, IEEE Transactions on Smart 
Grid 10 (4) (July 2019) 4457–4466, https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2018.2860783. 
[50] Z. Liu, F. Wen, G. Ledwich, Optimal planning of electric-vehicle charging stations 
in distribution systems, IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery 28 (1) (2013) 
102–110, https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRD.2012.2223489. 
[51] Wang, C., He, F., Lin, X., Max Shen, Z.-J., Li, M., Designing locations and capacities 
for charging stations to support intercity travel of electric vehicles: An expanded 
network approach, Transportation Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, 
Volume 102, 2019, Pages 210-232. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2019.03.013. 
[52] M.M. Islam, A. Mohamed, H. Shareef, Optimal allocation of rapid charging stations 
for electric vehicles, in: 2015 IEEE Student Conference Research and Development 
SCOReD 2015, 2015, pp. 378–383, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
SCORED.2015.7449360. 
[53] Ge, S., Feng, L., and Liu, H., The planning of electric vehicle charging station based 
on Grid partition method, 2011 International Conference on Electrical and Control 
Engineering, 2011, pp. 2726-2730, doi:10.1109/ICECENG.2011.6057636. 
[54] Dunn, B., Kamath, H., Tarascon, J.M., Electrical energy storage for the grid: a 
battery of choices. Science. 2011 Nov 18;334(6058):928-35. doi: 10.1126/scienc 
e.1212741. PMID: 22096188. 
[55] D. Sbordone, I. Bertini, B. Di Pietra, M.C. Falvo, A. Genovese, L. Martirano, EV fast 
charging stations and energy storage technologies: A real implementation in the 
smart micro grid paradigm, Electric Power Systems Research 120 (2015) 96–108, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2014.07.033. 
[56] S. Negarestani, M. Fotuhi-Firuzabad, M. Rastegar, A. Rajabi-Ghahnavieh, Optimal 
Sizing of Storage System in a Fast Charging Station for Plug-in Hybrid Electric 
Vehicles," in, IEEE Transactions on Transportation Electrification 2 (4) (2016) 
443–453, https://doi.org/10.1109/TTE.2016.2559165. 
[57] B. Sun, T. Dragiˇcevi´c, F.D. Freijedo, J.C. Vasquez, J.M. Guerrero, A Control 
Algorithm for Electric Vehicle Fast Charging Stations Equipped With Flywheel 
Energy Storage Systems, IEEE Transactions on Power Electronics 31 (9) (2016) 
6674–6685, https://doi.org/10.1109/TPEL.2015.2500962. 
[58] D. Zhao, N. Thakur, J. Chen, Optimal design of energy storage system to buffer 
charging infrastructure in smart cities, J. Manag. Eng. 36 (2) (2020) 4019048. 
[59] He, Y., Song, Z., Liu, Z., Fast-charging station deployment for battery electric bus 
systems considering electricity demand charges, Sustainable Cities and Society, 
Volume 48, 2019, 101530, doi:10.1016/j.scs.2019.101530. 
[60] Khan, W., Ahmad, F., Alam, Md S., Fast EV charging station integration with grid 
ensuring optimal and quality power exchange, Engineering Science and 
Technology, an International Journal, Volume 22, Issue 1, 2019, Pages 143-152, 
doi:10.1016/j.jestch.2018.08.005. 
[61] Rao Gampa, S. Jasthi, K., Goli, P., Das, D., Bansal, R.C., Grasshopper optimization 
algorithm based two stage fuzzy multiobjective approach for optimum sizing and 
placement of distributed generations, shunt capacitors and electric vehicle 
charging stations, Journal of Energy Storage, Volume 27, 2020, 101117, doi:10 
.1016/j.est.2019.101117. 
[62] G.F. Savari, V. Krishnasamy, V. Sugavanam, et al., Optimal Charging Scheduling of 
Electric Vehicles in Micro Grids Using Priority Algorithms and Particle Swarm 
Optimization, Mobile Netw Appl 24 (2019) 1835–1847, https://doi.org/10.1007/ 
s11036-019-01380-x. 
[63] H. Mohammad Moradi, Mohammad Abedini, S.M. Reza Tousi, S. Mahdi 
Hosseinian, Optimal siting and sizing of renewable energy sources and charging 
stations simultaneously based on Differential Evolution algorithm, International 
Journal of Electrical Power & Energy Systems 73 (2015) 1015–1024. 
[64] M.R. Mozafar, M.H. Moradi, M.H. Amini, A simultaneous approach for optimal 
allocation of renewable energy sources and electric vehicle charging stations in 
smart grids based on improved GA-PSO algorithm, Sustain. Cities Soc. 32 (May) 
(2017) 627–637, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.scs.2017.05.007. 
[65] H. Mehrjerdi, R. Hemmati, Stochastic model for electric vehicle charging station 
integrated with wind energy, Sustain. Energy Technol. Assessm. 37 (November 
2019) (2020), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seta.2019.100577. 
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

Journal of Energy Storage 43 (2021) 103225
13
[66] J.A. Domínguez-Navarro, R. Dufo-L´opez, J.M. Yusta-Loyo, J.S. Artal-Sevil, J. 
L. Bernal-Agustín, Design of an electric vehicle fast-charging station with 
integration of renewable energy and storage systems, Int. J. Electr. Power Energy 
Syst. 105 (March 2018) (2019) 46–58, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
ijepes.2018.08.001. 
[67] Y. Hu, K. Qian, H. Gao, Design of electric vehicle charging station based on genetic 
algorithm, IOP Conf. Ser. Mater. Sci. Eng. 631 (5) (2019), https://doi.org/ 
10.1088/1757-899X/631/5/052025. 
[68] Hasan Mehrjerdi, Reza Hemmati, Electric vehicle charging station with multilevel 
charging infrastructure and hybrid solar-battery-diesel generation incorporating 
comfort of drivers, Journal of Energy Storage, Volume 26, 2019, 100924, doi:10 
.1016/j.est.2019.100924. 
[69] T.S. Biya, Design and power management of solar powered electric vehicle 
charging station with energy storage system, in: 2019 3rd International Conference 
on Electronics, Communication and Aerospace Technology, 2019, pp. 815–820. 
[70] G.R.C. Mouli, P. Bauer, M. Zeman, System design for a solar powered electric 
vehicle charging station for workplaces,, Applied Energy 168 (2016) (2020) 
434–443, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2016.01.110. 
[71] Omar Hafez, Kankar Bhattacharya, Optimal design of electric vehicle charging 
stations considering various energy resources, Renewable Energy 107 (2017) 
576–589, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2017.01.066. 
[72] H. S´anchez-S´ainz, C.-A. García-V´azquez, F. Llorens Iborra, L.M. Fern´andez- 
Ramírez, Methodology for the Optimal Design of a Hybrid Charging Station of 
Electric and Fuel Cell Vehicles Supplied by Renewable Energies and an Energy 
Storage System, Sustainability 11 (2019) 5743, https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
su11205743. 
[73] Clemente Capasso, Ottorino Veneri, Experimental study of a DC charging station 
for full electric and plug in hybrid vehicles, Applied Energy 152 (2015) 131–142, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2015.04.040. 
[74] T. Li, J. Zhang, Y. Zhang, L. Jiang, B. Li, An optimal design and analysis of a hybrid 
power charging station for electric vehicles considering uncertainties, in: IECON 
2018 - 44th Annual Conference on IEEE Industrial Electronics Society 1, 2018, 
pp. 5147–5152. 
[75] R. Energy, J. Contreras, Impact of electric vehicles on the expansion planning of 
distribution systems considering charging stations, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 10 (1) 
(2019) 794–804, https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2017.2752303. 
[76] D.A. Savio, V.A. Juliet, B. Chokkalingam, S. Padmanaban, J.B. Holm-Nielsen, 
F. Blaabjerg, Photovoltaic Integrated Hybrid Microgrid Structured Electric Vehicle 
Charging Station and Its Energy Management Approach, Energies 12 (2019) 168, 
https://doi.org/10.3390/en12010168. 
[77] S. Li, H. Wu, X. Bai, S. Yang, Optimal dispatch for PV-assisted charging station of 
electric vehicles, in: 2019 IEEE PES GTD Grand International Conference and 
Exposition Asia (GTD Asia), 2019, pp. 854–859. 
[78] Md A. Quddus, K. Mohannad, Md. Marufuzzaman, Modeling electric vehicle 
charging station expansion with an integration of renewable energy and Vehicle- 
to-Grid sources, Transportation Research Part E, Logistics and Transportation 
Review 128 (2019) 251–279, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2019.06.006. 
[79] Hasan Mehrjerdi, Off-grid solar powered charging station for electric and hydrogen 
vehicles including fuel cell and hydrogen storage, International Journal of 
Hydrogen Energy, Volume 44, Issue 23, 2019, Pages 11574-11583, doi:10.1016/j. 
ijhydene.2019.03.158. 
[80] A. Ahadi, S. Sarma, J.S. Moon, S. Kang, J.-H. Lee, A robust optimization for 
designing a charging station based on solar and wind energy for electric vehicles of 
a smart home in small villages, Energies 11 (2018) 1728, https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
en11071728. 
[81] Hassan Fathabadi, Novel stand-alone, completely autonomous and renewable 
energy based charging station for charging plug-in hybrid electric vehicles 
(PHEVs), Applied Energy, Volume 260, 2020, 114194, doi:10.1016/j.apenergy.201 
9.114194. 
[82] M. Ali, Modelling a solar charge station for electric vehicle with storage backup, in: 
2019 1st International Conference on Advances in Science, Engineering and 
Robotics Technology 2019, IEEE, 2019, pp. 1–4, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
ICASERT.2019.8934645. 
[83] A. Khan, S. Memon, T.P. Sattar, Analyzing integrated renewable energy and smart- 
grid systems to improve voltage quality and harmonic distortion losses at electric- 
vehicle charging stations, IEEE Access 6 (2018) 26404–26415, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2830187. 
[84] https://www.godigit.com/motor-insurance/car-insurance/find/best-electric-cars 
-in-india. 
[85] H. Shareef, Md.M. Islam, A. Mohamed, A review of the stage-of-the-art charging 
technologies, placement methodologies, and impacts of electric vehicles, Renew. 
Sustain. Energy Rev. 64 (2016) 403–420, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
rser.2016.06.033. Pages. 
[86] T.R. Hawkins, O.M. Gausen, A.H. Strømman, Environmental impacts of hybrid and 
electric vehicles—a review, Int. J. Life Cycle Assess. 17 (2012) 997–1014, https:// 
doi.org/10.1007/s11367-012-0440-9. 
[87] C.C. Chan, Engineering philosophy of electric vehicles, in: IEEE International 
Electric Machines and Drives Conference. IEMDC’99. Proceedings (Cat. 
No.99EX272, 1999, pp. 255–257, https://doi.org/10.1109/IEMDC.1999.769084. 
[88] M.M. Morcos, N.G. Dillman, C.R. Mersman, Battery chargers for electric vehicles, 
IEEE Power Eng. Rev. 20 (11) (Nov. 2000) 8–11, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
39.883280. 
[89] M. Ogura, Development of electric vehicles, JSAE Rev. 18 (1) (1997) 51–56, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0389-4304(96)00062-8. Pages. 
[90] X. Xu, Automotive power electronics-opportunities and challenges [for electric 
vehicles], in: IEEE International Electric Machines and Drives Conference. 
IEMDC’99. Proceedings (Cat. No.99EX272), 1999, pp. 260–262, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/IEMDC.1999.769086. 
[91] W. Kempton, S.E. Letendre, Electric vehicles as a new power source for electric 
utilities, Transp. Res. Part D: Transp. Environ. 2 (3) (1997) 157–175, https://doi. 
org/10.1016/S1361-9209(97)00001-1. Pages. 
[92] M.A Delucchi, T.E Lipman, An analysis of the retail and lifecycle cost of battery- 
powered electric vehicles, Transp. Res. Part D: Transp. Environ. 6 (6) (2001) 
371–404, https://doi.org/10.1016/S1361-9209(00)00031-6. Pages. 
[93] C.C. Chan, K.T. Chau, An overview of power electronics in electric vehicles, IEEE 
Trans. Ind. Electron. 44 (1) (Feb. 1997) 3–13, https://doi.org/10.1109/41.557493. 
[94] A. Emadi, K. Rajashekara, S.S. Williamson, S.M. Lukic, Topological overview of 
hybrid electric and fuel cell vehicular power system architectures and 
configurations, IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 54 (3) (May 2005) 763–770, https://doi. 
org/10.1109/TVT.2005.847445. 
[95] K.T. Chau, Y.S. Wong, C.C. Chan, An overview of energy sources for electric 
vehicles, Energy Convers. Manag. 40 (10) (1999) 1021–1039, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/S0196-8904(99)00021-7. Pages. 
[96] K. Morita, Automotive power source in 21st century, JSAE Rev. 24 (1) (2003) 3–7, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0389-4304(02)00250-3. Pages. 
[97] T.E. Lipman, M.A. Delucchi, A retail and lifecycle cost analysis of hybrid electric 
vehicles, Transp. Res. Part D: Transp. Environ. 11 (2) (2006) 115–132, https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.trd.2005.10.002. Pages. 
R.P. Narasipuram and S. Mopidevi                                                                                                                                                                                                         

